docs: add a central glossary (#22542)
backstage/backstage: docs/references/glossary.md

A software product that is managed in the Backstage [Software Catalog](#software-catalog). A component can be a service, website, library, data pipeline, or any other piece of software managed as a single project.

https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/system-model

## Condition

Conditions are used to return a conditional decision from a policy. They contain information about a given entity and restrictions on what types of users can view that entity.

## Conditional decisions

[Rules](#permission-rules) need additional data before they can be used in a decision. Once a [rule](#permission-rule) is bound to relevant information it forms a [condition](#condition). Conditional decisions tell the [permission framework](#permission) to delegate evaluation to the [plugin](#plugin) that owns the corresponding [resource](#permission-resource). Permission requests that result in a conditional decision are allowed if all of the provided conditions evaluate to be true.

## Contributor

A volunteer who helps to improve an OSS product such as Backstage. This volunteer effort includes coding, testing, technical writing, user support, and other work. A [user role](#user-role).

> ## Decorators

Reviewer: Bit of a scoping / context problem here when reading it in isolation - could be `Search Decorator` or `Decorator (Search plugin)` or something like that? To immediately upfront know what we're talking about

Author: I tried Search decorators and didn't love it as it clumps all search terms next to each other, Decorators (search plugin) seems like a good alternative. The k8s glossary has an idea of tags that we could emulate as well, https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/glossary/?all=true.

## Permission Rule

Rules are predicate-based controls that tap into a [resource](#permission-resource)'s data.

## Persona

Alternative term for a [User Role](#user-role).

## Plugin

A module in Backstage that adds a feature. All functionality in Backstage, even the core features, are implemented as plugins.

## Policy

User [permissions](#permission) are authorized by a central, user-defined [permission](#permission) policy. At a high level, a policy is a function that receives a Backstage user and [permission](#permission), and returns a decision to allow or deny. Policies are expressed as code, which decouples the framework from any particular [authorization](#authorization) model, like role-based access control (RBAC) or attribute-based access control (ABAC).

## Policy decision

Two important responsibilities of any authorization system are to decide if a user can do something, and to enforce that decision. In the Backstage permission framework, policies are responsible for decisions and plugins (typically backends) are responsible for enforcing them.

## Popup

A separate browser window opened on top of the previous one.

## Procedure

> A set of actions that accomplish a goal, usually as part of a [use case](#Use-Case). A procedure can be high-level, containing other procedures, or can be as simple as a single [task](#Task).

Author: updated in https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/22542/commits/e221a0b285500e5c1ce269aefdf7376f7a3ddb63

## Refresh Token

A string that an [OAuth](#oauth) client can use to get a new access token.

https://oauth.net/2/refresh-tokens/

## Resource

In the Backstage Catalog, an [entity](#entity) that represents a piece of physical or virtual infrastructure, for example a database, required by a component.

https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/system-model

## Role

See [User Role](#User-Role).

## Scope

A string that describes a certain type of access that can be granted to a user using OAuth.

## Search

A Backstage plugin that provides a framework for searching a Backstage [app](#app), including the [Software Catalog](#Software-Catalog) and [TechDocs](#TechDocs). A core feature of Backstage.

## Search Engines

Existing search technology that [Backstage Search](#search) can take advantage of through its modular design. Lunr is the default search in [Backstage Search](#search). Part of [Backstage Search](#search).

## Software Catalog

A Backstage plugin that provides a framework to keep track of ownership and metadata for any number and type of software [components](#component). A core feature of Backstage.

## Software Templates

> A Backstage plugin with which to create [components](#component) in Backstage. A core feature of Backstage.

Reviewer: The tagline could be tweaked a bit down the line here :)

This is also a good opportunity to add the Scaffolder term and cross linking the two, since we confusingly refer to both in different contexts.

## Conditional Decision (permission plugin)

A type of [decision](#policy-decision-permission-plugin) that allows for per-user evaluation of [conditions](#condition-permission-plugin) against a [resource](#resource-permission-plugin). See [Conditional Decisions](../permissions/concepts.md#conditional-decisions)

## Contributor

A volunteer who helps to improve an OSS product such as Backstage. This volunteer effort includes coding, testing, technical writing, user support, and other work. A [user role](#user-role).

## Declarative Integration

A new paradigm for Backstage frontend plugins, allowing definition in config files instead of hosting complete React pages. See [the Frontend System](https://backstage.io/docs/frontend-system).

## Decorator (search plugin)

A transform stream that allows you to add additional information to [documents](#document-search-plugin).

## Deployment Artifacts

An executable or package file with all of the necessary information required to deploy the application at runtime. Deployment artifacts can be hosted on [package registries](#package-registry).

## Developer

> Someone who writes code and develops software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Someone who writes code and develops software.
```

> A [user role](#user-role) defined as someone who uses a Backstage [app](#app). Might or might not actually be a software developer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. A [user role](#user-role) defined as someone who uses a Backstage [app](#app). Might or might not actually be a software developer.
```

A specific response to a user's request to perform an action on a list of [resources](#resource-permission-plugin). Can be either `Approve`, `Deny` or [`Conditional`](#conditional-decision-permission-plugin).

## Popup

A separate browser window opened on top of the previous one.

## Procedure (use cases)

A set of actions that accomplish a goal, usually as part of a [use case](#Use-Case). A procedure can be high-level, containing other procedures, or can be as simple as a single [task](#Task).

## Query Translators (search plugin)

An abstraction layer between a search engine and the [Backstage Search](#search) backend. Allows for translation into queries against your search engine.

## Refresh token

A special token that an [OAuth](#oauth) client can use to get a new [access token](#access-token) when the latter expires.

https://oauth.net/2/refresh-tokens/

## Resource (catalog plugin)

An [entity](#entity) that represents a piece of physical or virtual infrastructure, for example a database, required by a component. See [the catalog docs](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/system-model) for more information.

## Resource (permission plugin)

> Not to be confused with [Software Catalog resources](#resource-catalog-plugin). Permission resources represent the objects that users interact with and that can be permissioned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A representation of an object that a user interacts with and that can be permissioned. Not to be confused with [Software Catalog resources](#resource-catalog-plugin). 
```

## Rule (permission plugin)

> Rules are predicate-based controls that tap into a [resource](#resource-permission-plugin)'s data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A predicate-based control that taps into a [resource](#resource-permission-plugin)'s data.
```

## Role

See [User Role](#User-Role).

## Scaffolder

Known as [Software Templates](#software-templates).

## Scope

A string that describes a certain type of access that can be granted to a user using OAuth, usually in conjunction with [access tokens](#access-token).

## Search

A Backstage plugin that provides a framework for searching a Backstage [app](#app), including the [Software Catalog](#Software-Catalog) and [TechDocs](#TechDocs). A core feature of Backstage.

## Search Engine (Backstage search)

Existing search technology that [Backstage Search](#search) can take advantage of through its modular design. Lunr is the default search in Backstage Search.

## Software Catalog

A Backstage plugin that provides a framework to keep track of ownership and metadata for any number and type of software [components](#component). A core feature of Backstage.

> ## Software Templates

Reviewer 2: You might want to make this two separate entries. "Software Templates" (plural) is the name of the plugin/feature, so making it singular would be incorrect. "Software Template" is a thing (a project skeleton), and should be listed as a singular noun.

Author: Updated in b408b6e28dbee90afe6a0b76d078dff0f3b39747

Can also be: The core Backstage plugin that handle ingestion and display of your organizations software products.

## Cloud Native Computing

A set of technologies that "empower organizations to build and run scalable applications in modern, dynamic environments such as public, private, and hybrid clouds. Containers, service meshes, microservices, immutable infrastructure, and declarative APIs exemplify this approach." ([CNCF Cloud Native Definition v1.0](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/DEFINITION.md)).

## Cloud Native Computing Foundation

A foundation dedicated to the promotion and advancement of [Cloud Native Computing](#Cloud-Native-Computing). The mission of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) is "to make cloud native computing ubiquitous" ([CNCF Charter](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/charter.md)).

CNCF is part of the [Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/).

## CNCF

Cloud Native Computing Foundation.

## Code Grant

[OAuth](#oauth) flow where the client receives an [authorization code](#code) that is passed to the backend to be exchanged for an [access token](#access-token) and possibly a [refresh token](#refresh-token).

> ## Collators (search plugin)

Reviewer 2: Clarification: I see that @freben points out that Wikipedia uses parenthetical qualifiers as well as opening phrases. True. My point here is that in the glossary, one or the other will suffice.

> ## Collators (search plugin)

Author: 👍 , I'm gonna stick with it just in the header and get rid of existing `Part of...` blocks.

> ## Collators (search plugin)

Author: I added some high level rules here for when to add the disambiguator, https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/22542/files#diff-f61664ab7d3ef1169d79e285d69cb0231f1f20e989557966a40436946111b9d5R25. Basically, I'm not sure we want them everywhere, but they should be used when the context is not global and there may be confusion between contexts.

Collators transform streams of [documents](#documents) into searchable texts. They're usually responsible for the data transformation and definition and collection process for specific [documents](#documents). Part of [Backstage Search](#search).

## Component (catalog plugin)

A software product that is managed in the Backstage [Software Catalog](#software-catalog). A component can be a service, website, library, data pipeline, or any other piece of software managed as a single project.

https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/system-model

## Condition (permission plugin)

> Conditions are used to return a conditional decision from a policy. They contain information about a given entity and restrictions on what types of users can view that entity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A declaration that returns a conditional decision from a policy. Suggestions contain information about a given entity and restrictions on what types of users can view that entity.
```

In general, I recommend trying to make the first sentence of a glossary entry a definition of what the entry *is* rather than what it *does*. You can then expand on the definition if necessary. If the definition becomes too complex, it might be that it's actually documentation that belongs elsewhere in the doc.

Author: Definitely agree, this will definitely be something we'll want to iterate on to get the right wording. I updated a couple of the entries that were definitely too wordy. I think pointing back to a plugin or framework doc would help a lot here.

## Conditional decisions

[Rules](#permission-rules) need additional data before they can be used in a decision. Once a [rule](#permission-rule) is bound to relevant information it forms a [condition](#condition). Conditional decisions tell the [permission framework](#permission) to delegate evaluation to the [plugin](#plugin) that owns the corresponding [resource](#permission-resource). Permission requests that result in a conditional decision are allowed if all of the provided conditions evaluate to be true.

## Contributor

A volunteer who helps to improve an OSS product such as Backstage. This volunteer effort includes coding, testing, technical writing, user support, and other work. A [user role](#user-role).

## Declarative integration

> A new paradigm for Backstage frontend plugins, allowing definition in config files instead of hosting complete React pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new paradigm for Backstage frontend plugins, allowing definition in config files instead of hosting complete React pages. See [The Frontend System](https://backstage.io/docs/frontend-system).
```

(Suggest using this syntax for all references back to the documentation. Also, it can go at the end of the definition paragraph.)

Author: 👍 , I'll have to write a doc about writing for the glossary at this rate :)

Author: Updated in https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/22542/commits/4944f29f2cc61dbd29019cd5693c051301f8497f and added a guide too

Reviewer 2: Nice!

> https://backstage.io/docs/frontend-system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Possible use cases for a decorator could be to bias search results or otherwise improve the search experience in your Backstage instance. Decorators can also be used to remove [metadata](#metadata), filter out, or even add extra documents at index-time. Part of [Backstage Search](#search).

## Deployment Artifacts

An executable or package file with all of the necessary information required to deploy the application at runtime. Deployment artifacts can be hosted on [package registries](#package-registry).

## Developer

Someone who writes code and develops software.

A [user role](#user-role) defined as someone who uses a Backstage [app](#app). Might or might not actually be a software developer.

## Developer Portal

A centralized system comprising a user interface and database used to facilitate and document all the software projects within an organization. Backstage is both a developer portal and (by virtue of being based on plugins) a platform for creating developer portals.

> ## Documents (search plugin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Document (search plugin)
```

Reviewer 2: By convention, glossary entries are singular. But, need to change references too if you do this. Might not be worth it.

Author: It's worth the time in the first round to get this right, updated in https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/22542/commits/4944f29f2cc61dbd29019cd5693c051301f8497f
